Quevedo, Javier Márquez. “Telecommunications and Colonial Rivalry: European Telegraph Cables to the Canary Islands and Northwest Africa, 1883-1914.” _Historical Social Research / Historische Sozialforschung_ 35, no. 1 (131) (2010): 108–24.

ABSTRACT
"The first submarine telegraphic cable which linked the Canary Islands with the Spanish mainland was inaugurated in 1883. After only one year, the cable reached Senegal, and a decade later, the islands were already connected to Brazil. At a first stage the network was exploited by prestigious English and French companies which had been in charge of its construction and its technological aspects. Beyond the local socioeconomic significance this first telegraph cable had for the local society, the Canary Islands, given their geostrategical situation, became a stage for the rivalry between the European countries as regards the colonisation of Africa. Part of the communications with Northwest Africa, and with South America, had a necessary intermediate landing site on the islands. Issues regarding the ownership of the network, the control of its functioning or the possibility of its interruption were vital for the imperialist projects of Western powers in their open competition with each other. Telegraph cables are a good example of the degree of intervention to which this geographical area was subjected by industrial capitalist countries. This article analyses the way in which this telecommunications system influenced the geopolitical situation of the Canary Islands and their African hinterland. Also, it deals with the hidden fights between the European powers in their quest to hold control of this system, as well as the resulting pressure the Spanish government experienced in the pre-First World War years."

SUMMARY
This article discusses how the sudden importance of transoceanic cables to the maintenence of colonial empires led to fairly aggressive negotiations regarding the rights for setting and landing cables. Much of this aggression was due to the national security need for communications not beholden to foreign powers. This need for colonial telegraph networks and the economic and physical practicalities of laying transoceanic cables meant that the Canary Islands which are a group of islands owned by Spain of the northwest coast of Africa and the Azores owned by Portugal in the Atlantic became the site of intense jockeying for rights and influence as they were ideal relay stations.

LINKS
[[The Sudden Importance of Previously Unremarkable Land]]
[[The British Telegraphy Project]]
[[North Atlantic]]