## The Journey Between Website/Sources/@Headrick2001 and Website/Thoughts/Atomic/Gutta-Percha
- [[Website/Sources/@Headrick2001]]
- [[Website/Thoughts/Atomic/North Atlantic]]
- [[Website/0_Final Journey_1]]
- [[Website/Thoughts/Ideas/Selective Obliviousness]]
- [[Website/Sources/@Tully2009]]
- [[Website/Thoughts/Atomic/Gutta-Percha]]

I did meet my personal goals for this course as my goal was: I would like to learn something about the history of the internet, as I love learning as a worthwhile goal in and of itself. This means that it would have been fairly difficult to fail at this goal as any new thing I learned would have fulfilled it. However, for this Final Journey I have chosen to focus on the global telegraphy network which has also been referred to as 'The First Internet'. The source [[@Headrick2001]] taught me about how the shape and structure of the global telegraphy network was influenced by both commercial interests as well as the imperial rivalries of the time. In the thought [[North Atlantic]] I made the connection between how the influence of imperial rivalries on the shape of the global telegraphy network meant that the most robust sections of said network were concentrated in the North Atlantic and how that trend helped give the North Atlantic nations disproportionate influence on the global stage. The presence of [[0_Final Journey_1]] in this journey is as a relay point between two previously unconnected thoughts as my personal memex is organized less as one large web as it is organized as three smaller webs with several overlap points. As such my first Final Journey question created connections where there were previously none. In my learning about the global telegraphy network I expanded on my thought [[Selective Obliviousness]] to include environmental concerns as I learned in [[@Tully2009]] that the telegraphy industry required gutta-percha and how this led to massive and unsustainable harvesting practices that all but rendered several varieties of tree extinct all while denying that there was a problem and ignoring expert advice. Which shows an interesting parallel with modern discourse about climate change which is full of denialism and ignoring of evidence. As I mentioned in [[Gutta-Percha]] I had never heard of gutta-percha before which is an excellent example of how I met my goal in that I learned about a whole new aspect of industrialization, a whole new resource that was ravenously extracted, and a whole new historical environmental disaster. In conclusion I learned quite a lot about the history of the Internet in this course but I feel that I learned the most about telegraphy and the global telegraphy network as before this course I was fairly ignorant about telegraphy other than it required wires and used morse code. Which is why I chose to focus on telegraphy for this Final Journey question even though I also learned a lot of fascinating things about early telephony and early telephone networks as well as about early computer networks and video games.